# Assignment 1

<h5 align="right">张志恒 202100202072 地空1班</h5>

#### § 10.1

12. $uRv$ means there is an edge joining vertices $u$ and $v$ , as it is an undirected graph, we can also say there is an edge, respectively, joining vertices $v$ and $u$ , which means $vRu$ . It turns out that the relation is symmetric.

    Because of the loop at every vertex, $uRu$ is constant, which means reflexive relation.

#### § 10.2

5. No.   Each edge represents contributes twice to the degree count of all vertices, thus the sum of each vertex's degree must be even, which contradicts the  $15 \times 5 = 75$ degree in the problem.

18. The possible values for $\deg(v_i)$ are $0,1,...,n−1$ , where $n≥2$ is the number of vertices. However, it is impossible for both $0$ and $n − 1$ to be in the range of $\deg$ , since if one vertex is adjacent to any other vertices, then no vertex can has $\deg = 0$ . Thus the range of $\deg$ has at most n − 1 values, whereas the the number of vertices is $n$ , so there must be one deg value corresponding to two or more vertices according to Pigeonhole Principle. It turns out that there must be two vertices that have the same degree.

26. a)  $n = 2$ .   $K_1$ doesn't have more than two vertices to be bipartite. K2 is bipartite apparently. For $n > 2$ $K_n$ has a $C_3$ subgraph which couldn't be bipartite.

    b)  $n ≥ 4 ,~n\text{ is  even}$ .   For a circle, $n ≥ 3$ primarily. Then we represent each vertex as a part of $V_1$ or $V_2$ one by one till the end, and the n-th vertex and the 1-st vertex must belong to different sets, which requires $n$ should be even.
    c)  NULL .   Wheel couldn't be bipartite because $W_n$ always contains triangles.
    d)  $n ≥ 1$ .   As the bit string of each vertex of $Q_n$ has the different parity of the number of 1 with all its neighbors', we can divide the vertices into two classes, those with an odd number of 1 and those with an even number of 1.

52. a)  The sum of the degrees of the vertices is $2e$ , which is at least be $mv$ if and only if each vertex has the same minimum degree $m$ , thus $2e ≥ mv ~\Rightarrow~ 2e/v ≥ m$ .

    b)  The sum of the degrees of the vertices is $2e$ , which is at most be $Mv$ if and only if each vertex has the same maximum degree $M$ , thus $2e ≤ Mv ~\Rightarrow~ 2e/v ≤ M$ .

64. Suppose the bipartite graph is divided into two part, $V_1$ and $V_2$ , and $|V_1|=a,~|v_2|=b$ , then $v = a + b$ . To maximize $e$ , we connect each vertex in $V_1$ to every vertex in $V_2$ , and in such condition $e = ab$ , thus $e ≤ ab$ . According to $\sqrt{ab} ≤ \cfrac{a+b}{2}$ , we have $ab ≤ \cfrac{(a+b)^2}{4}$ , and then $e ≤ ab ≤ \cfrac{(a+b)^2}{4} = \cfrac{v^2}{4}$ .