---
typora-copy-images-to: ./illus
---

# Assignment 2

<h5 align="right">张志恒 202100202072 地空1班 跨专业选修</h5>

#### § 10.3

57. Are the simple graphs with the following **adjacency matrices** isomorphic?

    

    a)  $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ , $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$

    ​	Yes, they are isomorphic, because they are both in form of a line.

    

    b)  $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 & 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ , $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1& 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0  & 1 \\ 1 & 1 & 1 & 0\end{bmatrix}$

    ​	No, they are not isomorphic, because $|E_1| = 4 \neq |E_2| = 5$.

     

    c)  $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ , $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0  & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0\end{bmatrix}$

    ​	No, they are not isomorphic, because $|E_1| = 4 \neq |E_2| = 3$.



58. Determine whether the graphs without loops with these **incidence matrices** are isomorphic.

     

    a) $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ , $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$

    ​	They are isomorphic, because they are both in form of $K_3$.

     

    b) $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ , $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 0 \\  1 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$

    ​	They are isomorphic, because their complements are both a single edge.



#### § 10.4

30. Show that in every simple graph there is a path from every vertex of odd degree to some other vertex of odd degree.

    Choose a vertex $v$ of odd degree randomly, and due to its non-negative degree, it has to be in a connect block of the graph, which we called $G_v$. As $G_v$ is a graph as well whose total degree is even, it turns out that there must be another vertex $w$ of odd degree in $G_v$, and the connectivity lead to that there should be a path go through $v$ and $w$, which means there is a path from every vertex of odd degree to some other vertex of odd degree.



45. Show that a simple graph G with $n$ vertices is connected if it has more than $(n − 1)(n − 2)/2$ edges.

    For a simple graph of a same number of vertices, more connect blocks means less edges. We consider the situation leading to the most edges in an unconnected graph, that is dividing it to two blocks, with $|V|$ is $k$ and $n-k$ respectively. The total edges of such two parts is
    $$
    C_k^2 + C_{n-k}^2 = \frac{k(k-1)}{2} + \frac{(n-k)(n-k-1)}{2} = k^2 -nk + \frac{n^2 - n}{2}
    $$
    The quadratic function is maximzed at $k = 1$ or $k = n - 1$, with maximum $(n − 1)(n − 2)/2$ , that is to say if a graph has more than $(n − 1)(n − 2)/2$ edges which go beyond the most edges of such a unconnected graph, it has to be connected.