

# Assignment 5

<h5 align="right">张志恒 202100202072</h5>

<h6 align="right">地空21.1/自动22.4 跨专业选修</h6>

#### § 6.2

16. **How many numbers must be selected from the set ${1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15}$ to guarantee that at least one pair of these numbers add up to 16?**

    Separate these number into four group $(1,15),(3,13),(5,11),(7,9)$ whose sum is 16.

    Due to the pigeonhole principle, we have to select at least $5$ numbers to guarantee that at least one pair of these numbers add up to 16 which means they are in the same group.

    So, the answer is $5$.



23. **Show that whenever $25$ girls and $25$ boys are seated around a circular table there is always a person both of whose neighbors are boys.**

    Assume it is not true.

    - We don't want more than $2$ boys seating together, so boys can be divided into at least $13$ groups, which are $12$ pairs and one alone.

    - There are at least $2$ girls between each group of boys, or the lonely girls has both boys neighbors.

    Then we need more than $2 \times 13 = 26$ girls to fill in the intervals of boys group, while we have only $25$ girls which leads to contradiction.

    So, there is always a person both of whose neighbors are boys.



35. **There are 38 different time periods during which classes at a university can be scheduled. If there are 677 different classes, how many different rooms will be needed?**

    Due to the pigeonhole principle, the answer is $\left\lceil \cfrac{677}{38} \right\rceil = 18$.



43. **Show that if $f$ is a function from $S$ to $T$, where $S$ and $T$ are nonempty finite sets and $m = \left\lceil \cfrac {|S|}  {|T|}\right\rceil$, then there are at least $m$ elements of $S$ mapped to the same value of $T$ . That is, show that there are distinct elements $s_1, s_2, . . . , s_m$ of $S$ such that $f(s_1) = f(s_2) = ··· = f(s_m)$.**

    Due to the pigeonhole principle, $|T|$ holes and $|S|$ pigeons which lead to at least one hole living equal to or more than $m$ pigeons where $m = \left\lceil \cfrac {|S|}  {|T|}\right\rceil$.

    So there are distinct elements $s_1, s_2, . . . , s_m$ of $S$ such that $f(s_1) = f(s_2) = ··· = f(s_m)$.



#### § 6.4

10. **Give a formula for the coefficient of $x^k$ in the expansion of $(x + \cfrac{1}{x} )^{100}$ , where $k$ is an integer.**

    $x^k$ means there are $x^a \cdot \left(\cfrac 1 x\right)^b$ where
    $$
    a+b=100, ~a-b=k
    $$
    Solve it, then we have
    $$
    a = \frac{100+k}{2},~~b=\frac{100-k}{2}
    $$
    So the answer is the way we choose $a$ from $100$, that is 
    $$
    \left(\begin{array}{c} 100 \\ a \end{array}\right) = \left(\begin{array}{c} 100 \\ (100+k)/2 \end{array}\right) = \left(\begin{array}{c} 100 \\ (100-k)/2 \end{array}\right)
    $$
    



17. **Show that if $n$ and $k$ are integers with $1 \leqslant k \leqslant n$, then $\left(\begin{array}{c} n \\ k \end{array}\right) \leqslant \cfrac {n^k} {2^{k−1}}$**
    $$
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n \\ k \end{array}\right) = \frac {n(n-1)\cdots(n-k+1)}{k(k-1)\cdots 2\cdot1} \leqslant \frac{n^k}{2^{k-1}}
    $$



20. **Suppose that $k$ and $n$ are integers with $1 \leqslant k < n$. Prove the hexagon identity**
    $$
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n-1 \\ k-1 \end{array}\right)
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n \\ k+1 \end{array}\right)
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n+1 \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n-1 \\ k \end{array}\right)
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n \\ k-1 \end{array}\right)
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n+1 \\ k+1 \end{array}\right)
    $$
    which relates terms in Pascal’s triangle that form a hexagon.
    $$
    \begin{align}
    \text{left} &= \frac {(n-1)!}{(n-k)!(k-1)!} \cdot \frac{n!}{(n-1-k)!(k+1)!}\cdot \frac{(n+1)!}{(n-k+1)!k!} \\
    &= \frac {(n-1)!}{(n-1-k)!k!} \cdot \frac{n!}{(n-k+1)!(k-1)!}\cdot \frac{(n+1)!}{(n-k)!(k+1)!} ~= \text {right}
    
    \end{align}
    $$



27. **Prove the hockeystick identity**
    $$
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^r 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + r + 1 \\ r \end{array}\right)
    $$
    **whenever $n$ and $r$ are positive integers**

    **a)** **using a combinatorial argument**

    ​	The right formula $\left(\begin{array}{c} n + r + 1 \\ r \end{array}\right)$ calculus the number of kinds of bit strings with $r$ $0$s and $n + 1$ $1$s by choosing the positions of the $0$s. 

    ​	Alternatively, we consider that $j$ is the last position where $1$ appear, and $n+1 \leqslant j \leqslant n + r + 1$. The substring from 1st bit to (j-1)th has $n$ 1 and $j-1-n$ $0$s, which lead to
    $$
    \sum\limits_{j=n+1}^{n+r+1} 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} j-1 \\ n \end{array}\right) = 
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^r 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    $$
    ​	Such double couting shows that
    $$
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^r 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + r + 1 \\ r \end{array}\right)
    $$
    **b)** **using Pascal’s identity**

    - When $r=0$, the formula is correct.

    $$
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^0 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n \\ 0 \end{array}\right) = 1 = \left(\begin{array}{c} n + 1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right)
    $$

    - Suppose when $r=n$, the formula is correct. （这里应该是 $r=t$ 合适）

    $$
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^n 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} 2n + 1 \\ n \end{array}\right)
    $$

    - Check $r=n+1$

    $$
    \begin{align}
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^{n+1} 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    &= 
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^{n}\left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right) + \left(\begin{array}{c} n + n + 1 \\ n + 1 \end{array}\right) 
    \\&=
    \left(\begin{array}{c} 2n + 1 \\ n \end{array}\right) + \left(\begin{array}{c} 2n + 1 \\ n + 1 \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} 2n + 2 \\ n + 1 \end{array}\right)
    \end{align}
    $$

    The formula is correct as well, which lead to the correction of the assumption, that
    $$
    \sum\limits_{k=0}^r 
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + k \\ k \end{array}\right)
    =
    \left(\begin{array}{c} n + r + 1 \\ r \end{array}\right)
    $$



33. **In this exercise we will count the number of paths in the *xy* plane between the origin $(0, 0)$ and point $(m, n)$, where $m$ and $n$ are nonnegative integers, such that each path is made up of a series of steps, where each step is a move one unit to the right or a move one unit upward. (No moves to the left or downward are allowed.)**

    **a) Show that each path of the type described can be represented by a bit string consisting of m $0$s and n $1$s, where a $0$ represents a move one unit to the right and a $1$ represents a move one unit upward.**

    ​	Cause each step is a move one unit to the right(0) or a move one unit upward(1).

    **b) Conclude from part (a) that there are $\left(\begin{array}{c} m + n \\ n \end{array}\right)$ paths of the desired type.**

    ​	There are $m+n$ steps, including $m$ steps right, and $n$ steps upward, and we consider the location of $n$ steps upward in whole $m+n$ steps. So the number of the way we arrange such steps lead to the answer $\left(\begin{array}{c} m + n \\ n \end{array}\right)$.



#### § 6.5

28. **Show that there are $C(n + r −q_1 −q_2 −\cdots−q_r −1,n − q_1 −q_2 −···−q_r)$ different unordered selections of $n$ objects of $r$ different types that include at least $q_1$ objects of type one, $q_2$ objects of type two, . . . , and $q_r$ objects of type $r$.**

    At first we choose the required objects $q_1,q_2,...,q_r$, and then we still need to select $n-q_1-q_2-\cdots -q_r$ objects. Now we have $r$ types with $r-1$ intervals, and from totally $n + r −q_1 −q_2 −\cdots−q_r −1$ items, we choose $n − q_1 −q_2 −\cdots−q_r$ positions for the objects to be selected. So the number of way of selections is $C(n + r −q_1 −q_2 −\cdots−q_r −1,n − q_1 −q_2 −···−q_r)$.



32. **How many different strings can be made from the letters in *AARDVARK*, using all the letters, if all three As must be consecutive?**

    Consider *AAA* as a unit, and then arrange these six elements and remove the ordered relationship between two Rs.
    $$
    \frac{A_6^6}{A_2^2} = 360
    $$



47. **Use the product rule to prove Theorem 4, by first placing objects in the first box, then placing objects in the second box, and so on.**

    > *Theorem 4*
    >
    > The number of ways to distribute $n$ distinguishable objects into $k$ distinguishable boxes so that $n_i$ objects are placed into box $i$, $i = 1,2,...,k$, equals
    > $$
    > \frac{n!}{n_1!n_2!\cdots n_k!}
    > $$

    $$
    \begin{align}
    &~C(n,{n_1})~C({n-n_1},{n_2})~C({n-n_1-n_2},{n_3})\cdots C({n-n_1-n_2-\cdots-n_{k-1}},{n_k}) \\
    =
    &~\frac{n!}{(n-n_1)!n_1!}\frac{(n-n_1)!}{(n-n_1-n_2)!n_2!}\cdots\frac{(n-n_1-n_2-\cdots-n_{k-1})!}{(n-n_1-n_2-\cdots-n_{k})!n_k!} \\
    =
    &~\frac{n!}{0!\cdot n_1!n_2!\cdots n_k!} \\
    =
    &~\frac{n!}{n_1!n_2!\cdots n_k!}
    \end{align}
    $$



48. **Prove Theorem 4 by first setting up a one-to-one correspondence between permutations of $n$ objects with $n_i$ indistinguishable objects of type $i$, $i = 1, 2, 3, . . . , k$, and the distributions of $n$ objects in $k$ boxes such that $n_i$ objects are placed in box $i$, $i = 1,2,3,...,k$ and then applying Theorem 3.**

    > *Theorem 3*
    >
    > The number of different permutations of $n$ objects, where there are $n_1$ indistinguishable objects of type 1, $n_2$ indistinguishable objects of type 2, . . . , and $n_k$ indistinguishable objects of type k, is
    > $$
    > \frac{n!}{n_1!n_2!\cdots n_k!}
    > $$

    We consider a sequence $a_1,a_2,...,a_n$ where $a_i$ is the box into which object $i$ goes. Cause there are $n_i$ objects should be throw into the box $i$ which means for each box there are $n_i$ number in the sequence are same, which is just like the situation in *Theorem 3*. Then we could find the solution to the distribution problem which is same to what *Theorem 4* tells, that is $\cfrac{n!}{n_1!n_2!\cdots n_k!}$.

